.TH DBINIT.BASH 1 01-13-2018 redrock9 DBINIT.BASH

.SH NAME
    dbinit.bash

.SH SYNOPSIS 
    
.B  dbinit
.RI  [ OPTIONS ]

.SH CONFIGURATION
To use this script, the working directory should have either one of the following folder structures in it:

Structure 1:
  ./create
  ./insert

structure 2:
  ./sql/{create,insert}

structure 3:
  ./fixtures/sql/{create,insert}

The \fIcreate\fP directory should contain SQL scripts with code for anything that needs to happen on database creation, like table creation statements.

The \fIinsert\fP directory should contain SQL scripts that insert default data into the database. Insertion scripts are optional
so this folder may be empty.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Utility script that helps developers to quicky create test databases and insert test data into them. For this script to work, SQL files with your 
database creation/insertion scripts should be placed in directories as described in the \fBCONFIGURATION\fP section.

.SH OPTIONS
 \fB-f\fP, \fB--fresh\fP \fIDATABASE_NAME\fP      Delete the database with the given name before executing any scripts. (skips prompt)

 \fB-u\fP, \fB--user\fP  \fIMYSQL_USER\fP         Set the username that should be used for the database connection. (root by default)

 \fB-p\fP, \fB--password\fP \fIMYSQL_PASSWORD\fP  Set the password that should be used for the database connection. (skips prompt)

 \fB-s\fP, \fB--host\fP \fIMYSQL_IP\fP            Set the IP address or hostname of the mysql instance.

 \fB-p\fP, \fB--port\fP \fIMYSQL_PORT\fP          Set the port the mysql instance can be reached on.
 
 \fB-n\fP, \fB--no-insert\fP                Skip insertion scripts.

 \fB-x\fP, \fB--initial\fP                  Skip database deletion prompt.

 \fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP                     Show this prompt.
